---
layout: post
title:  "The team-quiz"
date:   2020-11-01T12:43:52.843Z
categories: team-building
tags:
image: /assets/post_images/the-team-quiz_big.jpg
image2:  /assets/post_images/the-team-quiz_small.jpg
permalink: /posts/the-team-quiz
published: true
---

We recently did a remote team-building that involved answering fun icebreaker-questions. I liked the session, but wanted to turn it into something better. This team-quiz is the result.


You may know the kind of questions: "If you could have 1 superpower, which would it be ?" or "Which 3 items would you want to have when being stranded on a deserted island?". Or look for "icebreaker questions" to find a whole bunch of them.

I absolutely like the idea, but I have a few issues with them:
- They're too hypothetical for me. *End up on a deserted island ? I don't even know how I would get into that situation, so how would I know to get out of it again ?*
- They're out of my knowledge-area. *A super-hero that reminds me of the last sprint ? I don't read comic-books and didn't recently watch a superhero-movie. Therefore I have to pick one that pops up in my head, and try to recall something about their magic superhero powers.*
- They require a good memory. *My favourite high-school teacher? I'd need a few minutes to come up with a name.*
- Other people may not have a good answer either. And we all need to wait/listen for everyone's response, because we want everyone to be heard.
- They often lack interactivity. Typically everyone just gives an answer. You don't want to focus on one person too long, to make sure everyne can say their part.

I won't fix all of those with the team-quiz. But - after one tryout so far - I do prefer the quiz-version!

# How to play the quiz
Before starting the quiz, I think that two rules need to be set:
- Cheating/lying is not allowed
- If the team feels that a rule is missing, the team needs to find a way to overcome that

The quiz is played in rounds, with each round being about one question. The answer to each question should be the name of 1 of the participating team-members. An example question: "Who has once travelled the longest distance on foot ?"

It is then up to each team-member (including the quizmaster) to think which team member would best fit that description, and communicate their answer to the rest of the team.

When everyone has given their answer, the team needs to define what the correct answer is. It might be the most-voted-for person? Or does someone else think they better fit the description ? Discuss, share anecdotes and you shall find the correct answer.

Everyone who had given the correct answer gets a point. Play as many rounds as you like.


# Practical arrangements
To optimize the experience, some things should be considered:
- Prepare a variation of questions upfront. (This task could be split over multiple people)
- There's multiple ways to communicate your answer to the rest of the team. Each person could have a set of post-its with each team member's name. Or you could all type in a chat-tool at the same time. Or ...
- There's multiple ways to track the score. My suggestion for an on-line format: 
  - In a slack thread, let everyone put one message with their slogan/battle-cry/motivational-quote. (to add a bit more of the competitive aspect)
  - When the correct answer is agreed upon, let people with that answer add a reacji to their own message.


# Good and bad questions
Some questions are better than others. It probably has a lot to do with personal preference. I'll share my considerations:
- Don't turn it into a bragging contest. Don't ask *Who has most friends ? Who owns the biggest house ? Who has the hottest spouse?*
- Compile a variety of questions so that anyone could be the answer. Do this by preparing questions about a variety of hobbies & life experiences.
- Keep it fun. Ask questions about hobbies, pets and the fun things in life. Ask questions that could lead to fun anecdotes.
- Don't make people share more info than they want to. *"Who has most siblings?" shouldn't force someone into giving away their own situation, whereas "How many siblings do all teammembers have combined?" would push everyone into sharing their number*
- Consider whether it's practical to come to an agreement when deciding on the answer. On the other hand: it could be a fun challenge to try to decide on *"Who is the best cook?"*


# Advantages
I like the quiz-format for these (potential) reasons:
- The quizmaster can compete as well. There could even be a rotating role for the quizmaster.
- It has a competitive element.
- It's an opportunity to build trust in the team (because keeping track of the score is up to each individual)
- Lightweight arguments could arise (because some things aren't clear yet from the start)
- It can turn into a team-practice on decision-making (if a rule is unclear, the team has to find a solution)
- It has a feedback-aspect: when people give their answer, they share how they see the people around them.

# Disadvantage
Nothing in life is exclusively good or exclusively bad. I currently see these downsides:
- Unlike the icebreaker questions, this format is not very suited for a team that barely knows each other yet
- There's a risk that the people with the biggest mouths would end up saying most.
